#summary Brief instructions on building PECES from source.

= Introduction =

Analogous to the <a href="http://pppc-base.googlecode.com">3PC BASE middleware</a>, we are using [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] to build PCOM in a platform- and IDE-agnostic way. Furthermore, we are using [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] for source code management. Note that this page is not intended to be a primer on Maven or Subversion. If you want to learn more about Maven, you can read [http://www.sonatype.com/Support/Books/Maven-The-Complete-Reference this free book], for example. For Subversion, you can read [http://svnbook.red-bean.com/index.en.html this free book] which is not only comprehensive but also amusing, at times.

= Getting the Sources =

Assuming that you have already installed a [http://subversion.tigris.org Subversion client], a [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java SE SDK] as well as [http://maven.apache.org Maven] or an IDE-specific Maven plug-in such as [http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/ m2eclipse] for [http://www.eclipse.org Eclipse], you can simply checkout the [http://pppc-pcom.googlecode.com/svn/code/trunk/pcom-project pcom-project] from the trunk folder in the SVN. This will give you the latest development snaphot. Alternatively, you can also checkout one of the tagged versions from the [http://pppc-pcom.googlecode.com/svn/code/tags tags directory]. 

= Building the Code =

Once you have downloaded the code, you should be able to build the code from the command line, for example, by running `mvn clean install`. This should build all modules and install them in your local repository. Note that this will also build the Eclipse plug-in which can be used to generate stubs from Java interfaces. Thereby, the tycho plug-in will download all required code from the Eclipse download site which can take a long time to complete. If you are not working on the Eclipse plug-in, you might want to comment out the *pcom-tool-eclipse* module which will significantly speed up your build.

= Coding with Eclipse =

Assuming that you do not want to program with notepad, you can find some additional instructions on using Eclipse on the wiki page with build instructions of the <a href="http://code.google.com/p/pppc-base/wiki/BuildInstructions">3PC BASE Middleware</a>.